Dear colleagues

We are looking for a PhD student for a research project on Bayesian modeling.
The project is funded by the German Science Foundation starting in early 2025
and will be located at the University of Potsdam near Berlin, Germany. It is a
collaboration between Julia Haaf (Psychology), Shravan Vasishth (Linguistics),
and Audrey Bürki (Psychology and Linguistics). The PhD itself can be in
Psychology or Cognitive Science.

The successful candidate will have

1. a master's degree in psychology, linguistics, cognitive science, or a related
field;

2. an interest and experience in programming and in using statistical software
(R, python, and the like; preference for R);

3. an interest and experience in designing and conducting behavioral
experiments;

4. good communication and writing skills in English.

Computational modeling experience using probabilistic programming languages is
desirable but not required. Knowledge of German is not required for this
project.

In this project, we aim to advance the study of individual differences in
cognitive experiments. To achieve this goal, we will design a principled
workflow for developing Bayesian hierarchical models. This workflow will allow
researchers to check whether their models are appropriate and whether measures
of individual differences (e.g., reliability, correlations) are estimated with
sufficient precision. The planned tools also include a study design tool to plan
the required number of trials and participants in an experiment. Finally, the
project has an empirical component to investigate the relationship between
psycholinguistic and psychological effects of cognitive control.

To be considered for this position, the candidate should send an email to Julia
Haaf (julia.haaf@uni-potsdam.de). Please write a short cover letter about
yourself, explaining why you are interested in this position. Please also
include your curriculum vitae, 1-2 references, and the transcripts from your
undergraduate and graduate studies. If available, please also include an example
of written up research (e.g., thesis, course paper, preprint).

Deadline: All applications received by 25 October 2024 will receive full
consideration, but the search will remain open until the position is filled.

Contact: Prof. Julia Haaf, PhD
Psychological Methods, Statistics, and Evaluation
University of Potsdam
julia.haaf@uni-potsdam.de
