Thank you for taking the quiz. The solutions are:

You can check your answers with this key:  

Question 1: Standard error is:

a. the standard deviation of the sample scores
b. the standard deviation of the distribution of sample means
c. the square root of the sample variance
d.  2 times the standard deviation of sample scores

Answer: b.

Question 2: If we sum up the differences of each sample score from the sample's mean (average) we will always get
 
a. a large number
b. the number zero
c. a different number each time, sometimes large, sometimes small
d. the number one

Answer: b.

Question 3: As sample size increases, the standard error of the sample

a. increases
b. decreases
c. remains unchanged
d. could increase or decrease depending on the data

Answer: b.

Question 4: The 95% confidence interval tells you

a. that the probability is 95% that the population mean is equal to the sample mean
b. that the sample mean lies within this interval with probability 95%
c. that the population mean lies within this interval with probability 95%
d. none of the above

Answer: d.

Question 5: The 95% confidence interval is roughly equal to

a. 0.5 times the standard error
b. 1 times the standard error
c. 1.5 times the standard error
d. 2 times the standard error

Answer: d.

Question 6: The 95% confidence interval is --- the 90% confidence interval

a. wider than
b. narrower than
c. the same as

Answer: a.

Question 7: The frequentist p-value is

a. the probability of the null hypothesis being true
b. the probability of the null hypothesis being false
c. the probability of the alternative hypothesis being true
d. the probability of getting the absolute value of the sample mean that you got (or a value more extreme) assuming the null hypothesis is true
e. the probability of getting the absolute value of the sample mean that you got (or a value less extreme) assuming the null hypothesis is true

Answer: d.

Question 8: If Type I error probability, alpha, is 0.05 in a t-test, then

a. we have a 5% probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is actually true
b. we have a 95% probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is actually true
c. we necessarily have low power
d. we necessarily have high power

Answer: a.

Question 9: Type II error probability is

a. the probability of accepting the null when it's true
b. the probability of accepting the null when it's false
c. the probability of rejecting the null when it's true
d. the probability of rejecting the null when it's false

Answer: b.

Question 10: When power increases

a. Type II error probability decreases
b. Type II error probability increases
c. Type II error probability remains unchanged

Answer: a.

Question 11: If we compare two means from two samples, and the p-value is greater than 0.05, we can conclude

a. that the two samples comes from two populations with different means
b. that the two samples comes from two populations with identical means
c. that we don't know whether two samples comes from two populations with identical means or not

Answer: c.

If you didn't get everything right, don't be upset or disappointed; this topic is difficult!

